# Assignment2
I did a usability test for the app Runkeeper. I asked a friend who has never used the app to test it and give feedback.  

1. The purpose of usability testing is to get feedback from users on how easily usable an app is. This testing helps to give designers imperative feedback on how to improve the app's interface. Users often have unbiased opinions since they are using it for the first time and can show designers where people easily and frequently get confused. User testing is needed and important as people see things in different ways.  
In my heuristic evaluation I thought Runkeeper suffered mostly in its Aesthetic and Minimalist Design and Consistency and Standards. Thus I made my three tasks test those two heuristic values. I made my user look through the cluttered profile interface, click potentially ambigious or confusing symbols, and figure out what buttons meant and referred to. I just wanted to test how easy or not so easy the app is to use and how its crowdedness or ambiguity affected it. I asked my user to give her honest opinion of the interface for the home screen and all the other tabs. I asked her questions about the crowdedness to see if it bothered her as much it do for me. I tried to specify things towards these two characteristics, but also asked about the app in general. During the tasks, I saw her struggle in some tasks and easily complete other tasks. I gained great insights and also asked if she had any recommendations too or features she would be interested in.

2. Online Survey: https://forms.gle/9iLkcZvYZ78wrD3d6

3. Video of Moderator and User: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CpKIrMZJNVdOXt7t-ZnuTYDlvKIxyhrW/view?usp=sharing  
Screen Recording of user using the app: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-ASFL8hWJ8FD0D9AeyFozhpIN2svGpQC/view?usp=sharing  

4. I learned that the interface is not as difficult to use as I thought it would be. The user thought it was crowded, but did not think it was too difficult to use. She thought the interface was relatively okay to use for a first time user. I'm surprised at my findings which is good so that I could learn more about what other people think and not just have my own opinions. I did think that she struggled in navigating some areas as I had to help her, but if she personally didn't seem too frazzled, the interface isn't that bad.    
I learned that I need to ask my user more questions or else I will not get as much commentary and feedback. When doing tasks, users are often so focused that they forget to verbalize their thoughts and struggles. I also feel like I may have helped too much with the tasks with my explicit steps so maybe next time I will be more ambiguous and let the user figure it out more.  
I think overall it went well as my user had some good feedback and were able to complete the tasks. It didn't go so well in the sense that I should have prepared more questions to ask. If I prepare more specified questions, I can get better feedback and more insights from users in specific sections of the app.  
I hope to improve my usability testing skills with greater preparation. I want to ask better questions then what I had as I think the questions were too vague and didn't make the user think more indepth. I also would want to give the user more time to complete the task and not rush them too much.
